This is one of multiple videos discussing network translation on the net.
In this scenario we've been told that devices on the inside of our network such as Rotto one acting
as PC one Rotto for acting as PC two and five acting as PC three are not able to ping Google.
In other words 8 8 8 8 in this typology Rodda 3 is configured as Google.
So let's do some verification.
Here's wrote of one acting as PC one at the top can ping 8 8 8 8 as we can see in the output it's not
able to ping the google address show IP run.
We do have a static default dropped to 10 1 1 2 5 4 which is the IP address of router to acting as on
NAT router.
So let's do a trace 2 8 8 8 8 to speed things up.
Type No IP domain lookup do that again.
So we hit the default gateway but we don't go any further just to that again.
So Trace 2 8 8 8 8 it gets to the default gateway which is routed to but doesn't get any further.
So you can write it to ping Google ping 8 8 8 8.
Yes it can.
It can ping the Google IP address of quadripolar 8.
This is on Natrajan.
So let's do some not debugs de-bug IP Knecht Precentor that debugging has now enabled ping from radio
one to Google we not getting any output in the next debug show IP not translations.
They know not to translations show IP not statistics.
OK so can you find the problem.
Can you see where the issue is in this output notice here.
Total active translations is zero.
We had Peke translations previously of two.
And here's the problem there are no outside interfaces.
They are only inside interfaces.
Gigabit 0 0 0 1 0 2 0 3 are configured as inside interfaces.
Looking at rodded to use interfaces that's incorrect.
This interface.
Gigabit.
0 1 is on the outside.
In other words it's connected to the Internet.
These three interfaces are on the inside.
In other words they are on the local LAN and they should be nutted.
So before I do a change let's look at the config.
This interface is inside.
According to the configuration this interface is the inside.
According to the config.
But according to the topology that should be the outside.
So that's wrong of interfaces or configured correctly as the inside interface.
But we need to change gigabit.
0 1 and make that the outside interface.
Notice the problem when I hit enter.
We are told that it's inside so no IP net inside IP Nat outside.
So we've made it the outside interface.
Now show IP Nat statistics shows us that gigabit is 0 or 1 is the outside these three interfaces are
inside interfaces.
So in router one can we ping Google.
Yes we can.
We can see the translations on re-added too.
So Source IP address of 10 1 1 1 was translated to 8 8 8 to 5 for destination being Google.
We got the reply back and the reply was translated.
So that looks good.
What about Rotto 4 and 5 acting as internal hosts being 8 8 8 8 Ping's succeeds wrote a 5 ping 8 8 8
8 Ping's succeeds.
So we've resolved the network address translation issue in the apology.
Don't forget you need to configure inside and outside interfaces correctly when configuring network
address translation.
I hope you found this video useful if it's been of benefit to you.
Please like it and please subscribe to my YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.